---
title: Options Wizard
description: This article explains how to use the Options wizard to adjust and change your SPDocKit settings.
author: Tomislav Kunaj
date: 25/5/2017
---
## General

Here you can change the startup options:

* Whether to load the last opened farm snapshot on SPDocKit startup or not.
* Enable Verbose logging – use this only for diagnostics purposes or when asked by the support team.
* Modify how many site collections will be shown in the Site Topology report.
* Modify the maximum number of principals that will be used to generate data for in throttled reports.
* Modify the maximum number of site collections that will be used to generate data for in throttled reports.
* Modify the maximum number of query results per site collection.
* Turn on the automatic update check.
* Change skin.
* Adjust proxy settings.

## Save

Allows you to customize how documents are saved. Tags used while constructing the header and footer are: __CompanyName, Logo, AppName, Date, Page, TotalPages and Server.__

By using the | separator, the location of each tag can be specified i.e. if the header is set to __{CompanyName}||{Logo}__, the company name will appear in the upper left corner of the page, the upper center will be blank, and the upper right corner of the page will contain the logo (if uploaded).

The default footer is set to __Generated by {AppName} on {Date}|Page {Page}/{TotalPages}__ i.e. the application name and the date the export was made will appear in the lower left corner of the page, the lower center will be blank and the lower right corner of the page will contain the number of the page currently opened along with the total page number.

## Service settings

This section allows you to configure the __SPDocKit Service running period__ and the __default snapshot location__.

You can choose whether to save snapshots directly to the SPDocKit database or to the preferred disk location (or both).

The time you set here determines when the Service will start taking an automatic snapshot to collect the data you specified in the __Snapshot Options__ and __Load Target__ tabs of the Options Wizard. The __SPDocKit Service__ will repeat that task whenever the selected recurrence period runs out. The minimal period is 4 hours, while the default value is 1 day. 

Enabling the __automatic index reorganization__ will result in better space usage and performance of the SPDocKit database. This job will always be run outside of regular business hours (around 5 AM by default).

## Snapshot options

This section allows you to choose what will be loaded by both the __SPDocKit Service__ when taking an __automatic snapshot__, and if you select the __Default__ mode in the Take Snapshot wizard. 

We redesigned the load screen to be more user friendly, and added more load options. There are 4 categories:  
  * __SharePoint__
     * The __Farm Settings__ check box will be selected by default. That means that SPDocKit will load farm settings by default and this option cannot be changed. 
     * __Content Types__ - When this option is selected, you’ll need to crawl down to each list on the farm, since that is where the content types are defined.
     * SPDocKit also allows you to backup all __*.wsp files__ in use by your farm, but you’ll need to define a location for this backup. This data can also be used later to find out whether there are any problems with the assemblies deployed on your farm.
     * __Features and Solutions__, __Workflows__

  * __Security__ 
     * __Database Permissions__ - Selecting this will enable you to view the Database Permissions report. This report shows information about all users, across all databases on a SQL Server. 
     * __Permissions__ - If you want to know the permissions of each list item on the farm, you can get that information by selecting the __Permissions check box__ and setting the Load Depth to list item. You can also select the __Active Directory Group Members__ check box if you wish to load members of the AD groups. 
     * __Administrative Actions Log__ - this option will be visible only for SharePoint 2016 FP1 farms and enables you to browse and analyze administrative actions logs collected from your SharePoint farm.
     * __Security Audit__ - this option is required for Permission Audit report which enables you to see complete history of permission changes on site collection.

  * __Server Settings__ 
     * __Installed Programs and available Updates__
     * __SQL Server and IIS Settings Information__

  * __Project Server__ 
     * __Settings__
     * __Projects__  
   
From version 7 and onwards, you can document Project Server settings, list of projects and their permissions. 

You can also specify the load depth, which means how deep you want to crawl your SharePoint with SPDocKit. Possible choices are: site collection. subsites, list, and list items. Be aware that there are some dependencies related to the load depth selection and the available SharePoint information SPDocKit can retrieve. For example, if you want to load content types and workflows, lists are the minimum required load depth. SPDocKit will warn you if your current selection is not possible and provide instruction messages for enabling certain load options.

Finally, you can customize the __snapshots name template__. Under Snapshot Configuration, note the Snapshot Name Template field. We have prepared the Farm Name, Snapshot Mode (which can be either Automatic or Manual), and Date (which you can customize any way you like), keywords that can be included in the name template. The default date format is: “Date:yyyy_MM_dd_HH_mm_ss”. You can change the format by rearranging the item order and delimiter type. You can observe this name if you go to the Snapshots tab and include the File Name column using the View ribbon button called __Choose Columns__.

To reduce the farm load time we recommend unchecking Personal Sites. You can use the load performance slider to switch between low resource usage and a high-performance load.

## Load target

This section allows you to customize how SPDocKit crawls your SharePoint farm. If you know exactly what data you are interested in and want to reduce the loading time, you can narrow down your loading scope to a specific Web application, site collection or even subsite. If you want to be sure you’ve loaded the whole farm's content, farm is the recommended scope.

The selection you make here applies both for the __SPDocKit Service taking an automatic snapshot__ and when using the __Default mode__ in the Take Snapshot Wizard.

## Monitoring load

__This tab was removed in version 6.2__, as the Monitoring feature has been completely redesigned since. 

If you would like to explore your farm's SharePoint ULS and Windows event viewer logs, or track server health by monitoring performance counters, then [configure the SPDocKit Insights feature](#internal/spdockit-insights/configure-data-collection). Learn more about [SPDocKit Insights](#internal//spdockit-insights/insights-quick-start-guide) and how it can help you address all possible issues in your farm.

## Data retention

In this section, the user can set how long data will be kept in the database. __Data records from the SPDocKit database and on the disk older than the configured time value will be deleted.__ By default, __data records are stored for 6 months__ before the data retention job removes them. SPDocKit service will execute this job every day at a random time between 1:30AM and 5AM.

Set the preferred database size and SPDocKit will warn you when the database size passes that threshold.

If your SPDocKit database becomes too big, you can force a manual data retention using the __Execute__ button. Please note that this action will also try to execute the SHRINKDATABASE command on your SPDocKit database, which will fail unless you have the necessary permissions – being member of the sysadmin server role or db_owner database role. Without those permissions, data will still be deleted, but the database size will not decrease. You can still attempt to manually decrease the size of SPDocKit's databases by executing the SHRINKDATABASE command manually after the data retention job has run.

Please note that there is an option to “Mark Configuration as Good”. Marking a snapshot this way will exclude it from the data retention. For more information on this go [here](#internal/get-to-know-spdockit/snapshots-screen/).

## Subscription settings

If you wish to use the __Subscriptions and Alerts__ feature, check the __Subscriptions Enabled__ box. Configure the __job execution time__ and the day on which the weekly reports are sent. The __time of day to send subscriptions__ option determines at which time the daily, weekly, monthly, and quarterly subscription are sent, while the __Send weekly__ subscriptions option only dictates the day on which weekly subscriptions are sent.

To enable __email__ as the preferred delivery method, configure outgoing email server settings. After the outgoing email server settings are provided, you can test if these are valid by clicking the __Test Email Settings__ button. There is also an option to customize the email footer and email body text. 

[Read more about scheduling subscriptions and alerts.](#internal/get-to-know-spdockit/backstage-screen/subscriptions-and-alerts/)

## Email settings

The __Email settings__ configuration has been relocated to the Subscription Settings tab in SPDocKit 6.2.0.

## Email alerts

The __Email alerts__ feature has been redesigned in SPDocKit 6.2.0. __Please note!__ Email alerts created with SPDocKit versions older than 6.2.0 will not be preserved when upgrading to version 6.2.0. You will have to create new alerts. 

In order to create an alert containing the Farm Documentation, Farm Differences, or Best Practices Documentation reports, please follow these instructions.

1. Enable automatic subscriptions in the [Subscription Settings](#internal/get-to-know-spdockit/backstage-screen/options-wizard#subscription-settings) tab.
2. [Create new alert](#internal/how-to/subscriptions-and-alerts/create-new-alert/) containing the Farm Documentation, Farm Differences or Best Practices Documentation reports.
3. When adding a Farm Differences report, you will be prompted to select the target farm (if there are multiple farms in your SPDocKit database). The source farm will already be set to the farm you picked in the General tab. If you want to compare the current farm state with the previous one, both filters must have the same farm selected. If you wish to compare differences for two different farms, change the destination farm filter accordingly.
3. Please note that alerts are sent only after a service takes a snapshot and only if there are differences detected. If you would like to receive these reports even if there are no differences detected, please [create a subscription](#internal/how-to/subscriptions-and-alerts/create-new-subscription/) instead of an alert in step 2.
5. When done click Save & Close.

## Compare

From SPDocKit 7.4.0. onwards you can define with which snapshot the current one is compared when detecting configuration changes.
1. __Previous snapshot__ - the current snapshot is compared with the last snapshot taken.
2. __Last good configuration__ - with this option selected, the current snapshot is compared with the latest snapshot that is marked as good.
3. __Selected snapshots__ - when this option is selected, you can choose between all your snapshots taken beforehand.

Note that if you choose option 2. and there are no snapshots marked as good, SPDocKit will compare the current snapshot to the last snapshot taken.
The same rule applies if you choose option 3. and the selected snapshot gets deleted. 

This section also allows you to define which farm settings should be compared in the Compare Wizard. The selection you make here will be used as a default template when comparing two farms, but you can modify it directly in the Compare Wizard each time you use it.


